8. Saturn : Effects And Remedies
As the slowest moving planet and the chief significator for longevity, Saturn is a
barren, binding, cold, dry, hard, defensive and secretive planet. Its effects and
influences are felt with greater intensity and for longer periods than any other
planet. Saturn is considered to be very favourable for people born in the signs
owned by Venus, whereas Saturn is evil to those born in the signs owned by Mercury.
The astrological thesis of Lal Kitab describes Saturn as a serpent, whose head or mouth is Rahu and
Ketu is its tail. If Ketu is posited in earlier houses than Saturn, the latter becomes a great benefic for
the native. However, if the position is otherwise, the Saturn throws highest poisonous results on the
native. Further, Saturn never gives malefic effects if posited in houses of Jupiter i.e. 2, 5, 9 or 12,
whereas Jupiter provides bad results if posited in the house of Saturn.
Saturn is considered good in houses 2nd , 3rd and 7th to 12th, whereas 1st, 4th, 5th and 6th houses
are bad for Saturn. Sun, Moon and Mars are its enemies, Venus, Mercury and Rahu are friends and
Jupiter and Ketu are neutral to it. Saturn gets exalted in 7th house and the 1st house is the house of
its debilitation. Venus and Jupiter placed together act like Saturn in that house. Similarly Mars and
Mercury placed in a single house act like Saturn in that house. In the former case Saturn behaves
like Ketu, while in the latter case it behaves like Rahu.
Venus gets destroyed if Saturn is being aspected by the Sun in any horoscope. The aspect of Venus
on Saturn causes loss of money and wealth, but the aspect of Saturn on Venus proves highly beneficial. Collision of Saturn and Moon causes operation of the eyes of the native. Saturn gives good
results if posited in house earlier than Sun.
Saturn can never give malefic results if posited with Sun or Jupiter in a single house, but highly
adverse results would follow if posited with Moon or Mars in any house. Saturn releases its poisonous results on the sign and Mars, if it is posited in 1st house, on Mars only if posited in 3rd
house, on Moon if posited in 4th house, on Sun if posited in 5th house, and on Mars in posited in
3rd house. Saturn in 3rd house deprives the native of the accumulation of cash money and kills the
children of the native when posited in 5th house and 10th house is empty. It becomes highly benefic
in 12th house if friendly planets are posited in 2nd house. Saturn provides very good results if
placed in houses 1 to 7 on the condition that 10th house is empty. Saturn in 1st house and Sun in 7th,
10th or 11th houses causes all sorts of troubles for natives wife. Combination of Mars and Saturn
gives adverse results al through.
Saturn in Ist House
1st house is influenced by Sun and Mars. Saturn in 1st house will give good results only when 3rd,
7th or 10th houses are not inhabited by any planet which is inimical to Saturn. If Mercury or Venus,
Rahu or Ketu is in 7th house, Saturn will always give good results . In case Saturn is malefic and the
native has a hairy body, the native will remain poor. If native celebrates his birthday it will give very
bad results However the native will have a long life.
Remedies
1 Abstinence from alcohol and non-vegetarian meals.
2. Burying Surma in the ground will be beneficial for promotion in service and business.
3. Serving monkey will lead to prosperity.
4. Offering sweet milk to the roots of a banyan tree will give good results as regards education and
health.
Saturn in 2nd House
The native will be wise, kind and just. He will enjoy wealth and will be of religious temperament.
However, whether Saturn is benefic or malefic in this house, it will be decided by the planets placed
in 8th house. The state of finance of the native will be decided by 7th house, the number of male
members in the family by 6th house and age by 8th house. When Saturn is malefic in this house,
after the natives marriage his in laws will face problems.
Remedies
1. Going barefoot to temple for forty three days.
2. Putting a Tilak of curd or milk on the forehead.
3. Offering milk to snake.
Saturn in 3rd House
In this house Saturn gives good results. This house is the Pukka Ghar of Mars. When Ketu aspects
this house or is placed here Saturn will give very good results. The native will be healthy, wise and
very intuitive. If the native is wealthy he will have few male members in the family and vice versa.
As long as the native abstains from wine and non-vegetarianism, he will enjoy a long and healthy
life.
Remedies
1. Serve three dogs.
2. Distributing medicines for eyes free.
3. Keeping a dark room in the house will prove highly beneficial.
Saturn in 4th House
This house belongs to Moon. So it will give mixed results in this house. The native will be devoted
to his parents and will be of loving nature. Whenever the native is suffering from bad health, the use
of things associated with Saturn will give good results. In natives family some one will be associated with medical profession.
When Saturn is malefic in this house drinking wine, killing of snakes and laying the foundation of
the house at night will give very bad results. Drinking milk in the night will also give bad results.
Remedies
1. Offering milk to snake and offering milk or rice to crow or buffalo.
2. Pouring milk in the well.
3. Pouring rum in running water
Saturn in 5th House
This house belongs to Sun, which is inimical to Saturn. The native will be proud. He should not
construct a house till 48 years, otherwise his son will suffer. He should live in the house bought or
constructed by his son. He should keep articles of Jupiter and Mars in his ancestral house for
welfare of his children. If the native has hairy body, he will be dishonest.
Remedies
1. Distributing salty things while celebrating sons birthday.
2. Offering almonds in the temple and bringing and keeping half of it in the house.
Saturn in 6th House
If the work related to Saturn is done at night it will always give beneficial results. When marriage
takes place after 28 years it will produce good results. When Ketu is well placed the native will
enjoy wealth, profitable journey and happiness from children. When Saturn is malefic bringing
things associated with Saturn, like leather and things of iron, will give bad results, especially when
Saturn is in 6th house in Varshaphal
Remedies
1. Serving a black dog and offering meals to it.
2. Offering coconut and almonds in the running water.
3. Serving snakes will prove advantageous for the welfare of children.
Saturn in 7th House
This house is influenced by Mercury and Venus, both friends of Saturn. So this planet gives very
good results in this house. The professions associated with Saturn, like machinery and iron, will be
very profitable. If the native maintains good relation with his wife, he will be rich and prosperous,
will enjoy a long life and good health. If Jupiter is in 1st house, there will be gain from government.
Saturn becomes malefic if the native commits adultery and drinks wine. If the native gets married
after 22 years his eyesight will be affected adversely.
Remedies
1. Bury a flute filled with sugar in a deserted place.
2. Serving black cow.
Saturn in 8th House
In 8th house no planet is considered auspicious. The native has a long life, but his fathers life span
is short and natives brothers turn out to be his foes. This house is considered headquarter of Saturn,
but it will give bad result if Mercury, Rahu and Ketu are malefic in the natives horoscope.
Remedies
1. Keeping a square piece of silver.
2. Putting milk in water and sitting on a stone or wood while taking bath.
Saturn in 9th House
Native will have three houses. He will be a successful tour operator or civil engineer. He will enjoy
a long and happy life and parents also will have a happy life. Maintaining three generations will
protect from the bad effects of Saturn. If the native is helpful to others Saturn will always give good
results. The native will have a son, though he will be born late.
Remedies
1. Offering rice or almonds in running water.
2. Work associated with Jupiter-gold, Kiesar and Moon (silver cloth) will give good results.
Saturn in 10th House
This is Saturns own house, where it will give good results. The native will enjoy wealth and
property as long as he does not get a house constructed. Native will be ambitious and enjoy favours
from government. The native should behave with shrewdness and should do his work while sitting
at one place. Only then he will enjoy the benefits of Saturn.
Remedies
1. Going to temple.
2. Abstinence from meat, wine and eggs.
3. Offering food to ten blind people.
Saturn in 11th House
Natives fate will be decided at the age of forty eight years. The native will never remain childless.
Native will earn money by shrewdness and deceit.  Saturn will give good or bad results according
to the position of Rahu and Ketu
Remedies
1. Before going for an important work place a vessel filled with water and drop oil or wine on
earth for forty three days.
2. Abstinence from drinking and maintaing good moral character.
Saturn in 12th House
Saturn gives good results in this house. Native will not have enemies. He will have many houses.
His family and business will increase. He will be very rich. However Saturn will become malefic
if the native starts drinking wine and becomes non- vegetarian, or if the dark room in the house is
illuminated.
Remedies
1. Tying twelve almonds in a black cloth and placing it in a iron pot and keeping it in a dark room
will give good results.
9. Rahu:Effects And Remedies
Unlike other planets of the solar system Rahu and Ketu are not observable,
substantial heavenly bodies, with shape or mass content. Rightly termed as
shadowy planets, their movement is interrelated and as parts of one body they
are at all times just opposite to each other . Greater significance has been
attached to the role of Rahu in influencing human affairs in various dimensions, especially in Kaliyug.
The author of Lal Kitab describes Saturn as a serpent and Rahu and Ketu as its head and tail
respectively. As a node of Moon, Rahu shall not provide adverse results so long as 4th house or
Moon is not afflicted. He gives good results when Mars occupies houses 3 and 12, or when Sun and
Mercury are in house 3, or when he himself is posited in 4th house. Rahu further provides good
results if placed together with Mercury or aspected by him.
Rahu offers highly beneficial effects if placed in houses earlier than Saturn. But if it is otherwise,
Saturn becomes stronger and Rahu acts as his agent. Sun provides very good results when Rahu is
aspected by Saturn, but Rahu gives the effects of a debilitated planet when Saturn is aspected by
Rahu.
Rahu gets exalted in houses 3 and 6, whereas he gets debilitated in houses 8, 9 and 11. 12th house
is his Pakka Ghar and he proves highly auspicious in houses 3,4 and 6. Saturn, Mercury and Ketu
are his friends, whereas Sun, Mars and Venus are his enemies. Jupiter and Moon are neutral to him.
If Sun and Venus are placed together in a horoscope, Rahu will generally provide adverse results.
Similarly, Rahu will provide bad results if Saturn and Sun are also combined in a horoscope. Here
Mars will also become Mars negative. If Ketu is placed in houses earlier than Rahu, Rahu will
provide adverse results, whereas Ketus effect would be zeroed.
Rahu in 1st House
 1st house is influenced by Mars and Sun, which is like a throne. The planet in 1st house is considered to be the king of all planets.
The native will achieve a position higher than indicated by his qualification and will obtain good results from government. Rahu in this house would give the result of exalted Sun, but it will spoil the fruits of the house
in which Sun is placed. If Mars, Saturn and Ketu are weak only then Rahu would give bad results,
otherwise it will give good results in 1st house. If Rahu is malefic the native should never take any
electric equipments or blue/black clothes from his in-laws, else his son could be affected adversely.
Its malefic result too could last till the age of 42 years.
Remedies
1. Offer 400 gm lead in running water .
2. Wear silver in the neck.
3. Mix barley in milk in ratio of 1:4 and offer in running water .
4. Offer coconut in running water.
Rahu in 2nd House
If Rahu is in benefic form in 2nd house one gets money, prestige and lives like a king. He will have
a long life.
2nd house is influenced by Jupiter and Venus .
If Jupiter is benefic then the native will live the early years of his life in wealth and comfort.
If Rahu is malefic the native will be poor and have a bad family life, suffer from intestinal disorders.
The native is killed by a weapon and is unable to save money.
In the 10th, 21st to 42nd years of his life, he loses wealth by theft etc.
Remedies
1. Keep a solid silver ball in the pocket.
2. Wear things associated with Jupiter, like gold, yellow cloth, saffron etc.
3. Keep cordial relations with ones mother.
4. After marriage do not take any electric equipment from in-laws.
Rahu in 3rd House
It is the Pukka Ghar of Rahu. 3rd house belongs to Mercury and is influenced by Mars. When
Rahu is benefic the native will enjoy great wealth and a long life. He will be fearless and a loyal
friend. He would be a clairvoyant for seeing future in his dreams. He will never be issueless. He
will be victorious over his enemies; can never be a debtor. He would leave behind property. 22nd
year of his life would be of progress. However if Rahu is malefic in 3rd house then his brothers and
relatives would waste his money. His money once borrowed would never be returned. He would
have defective speech and would be an atheist. If Sun and Mercury are also there (in 3rd house)
with Rahu then his sister would become a widow in 22nd or 32nd year of his life.
Remedies
1. Never keep ivory or things of ivory in the house.
Rahu in 4th House
This house belongs to Moon, which is an enemy of Rahu. When Rahu is benefic in this house the
native would be intelligent, wealthy and will spend money on good things. Going on pilgrimage
would be beneficial for him. If Venus is also benefic then after marriage the natives in-laws could
also become rich and the native would also benefit from them.
When Moon is exalted the native would become very rich and would benefit from the works or
relatives associated with Mercury. If Rahu is malefic and the Moon is also weak then the native will
suffer from poverty and natives mother would also suffer. Collecting char coal, altering toilet,
installing oven in the ground and alteration of the roof in the house would be indicative of malefic.
Remedies
1. Wear silver.
2. Offer 400 gm coriander or almonds, or both in flowing water.
Rahu in 5th House
5th house belongs to Sun, which signifies male offspring. If Rahu is benefic native will be rich,
wise, enjoy good health. He would enjoy good income and good progress. The native would be a
devout or philosopher.
If Rahu is malefic it leads to abortions.
After the birth of a son, wifes health will suffer for twelve years. If Jupiter is also in 5th house
father of native will be in trouble.
Remedies
1. Keep an elephant made of silver.
2. Abstain from wine, non-vegetarianism and adultery.
3. Remarry your wife.
Rahu in 6th House (Exalted)
This house is influenced by Mercury or Ketu. Here Rahu is exalted and gives very good results. The
native will be free of all botherations or troubles. The native will spend money on clothes. The
native will be intelligent and victorious.
When Rahu is malefic he will harm his brothers or friends.
When Mercury or Mars is in 12th house Rahu gives bad result. The native suffers from various
ailments or loss of wealth. Sneezing while going to work would give bad results.
Remedies
1. Keep a black dog.
2. Keep a lead nail in your pocket.
3. Never harm ones brothers/sisters.
Rahu in 7th House
Native will be rich, but wife would suffer. He would be victorious over his enemies.
If the marriage takes place before twenty one years, it would be inauspicious. He would have good
relations with the government. But if he engages in business connected with Rahu, like electrical
equipments, then he will have losses. Native would suffer from head ache and if Mercury, Venus
or Ketu is in 11th house, then sister, wife or son would destroy the native.
Remedies
1. Never marry before 21st year of age.
2. Offer six coconuts in river.
Rahu in 8th House
8th house is concerned with Saturn and Mars. So Rahu in this house gives malefic effect. The
native would spend money uselessly on court cases. Family life would be adversely affected. If
Mars is benefic and is placed in 1st or 8th house or Saturn (benefic) is placed in 8th house, the
native will be very rich.
Remedies
1. Keep a square piece of silver.
2. While sleeping Saunf should be keep under the pillow.
3. Do not work in electricity or power department.
Rahu in 9th House
9th house is influenced by Jupiter. If the native has good relation with ones brothers and sisters it is
fruitful; else it would adversely affect the native. If the native is not religious minded then his
progeny would be useless for him. Professions influenced by Saturn would be profitable.
If Jupiter is in 5th or 11th house then it is useless. If Rahu is inauspicious in 9th house then chances of begetting a son
are less, specially if native files court cases against ones blood relation. Rahu is in 9th and 1st house is empty thenhealth
could be adversely affected and one gets insulted and mental problems, specially from olders.
Remedies
1. Use Tilak of saffron daily.
2. Wear gold.
3. Always keep a dog (it saves ones progeny).
4. Have good relations with your in-laws.
Rahu in 10th House
Keeping ones head uncovered gives the effect of a debilitated Rahu in 10th house. The good or bad
result of Rahu would depend upon Saturns position. If Saturn is auspicious then native would be
brave, long lived and rich and get respect from all quarters. If Rahu in 10th house is with Moon it
gives Raja Yoga. The native is lucky for ones father.
If Rahu in 10th house is malefic then it would adversely affect ones mother or natives health would
also be bad.
If Moon is alone in 4th house then natives eyes are adversely affected. He suffers from headaches
and there is loss of wealth, because of a dark complexioned person .
Remedies
1. Use blue or black cap.
2. Cover ones head.
3. Offer 4kg. or 400 gms of Khand in a temple, or in flowing water.
4. Feed blind people.
Rahu in 11th House
11th house is influenced by both Saturn and Jupiter. Native could be rich as long as his father is
alive. Alternatively, establishing things of Jupiter would help. Native has wicked friends. He gets
money from mean people. After the death of ones father he should wear gold in the neck. If Mars is
malefic for a native with Rahu in 11th at time of his birth, there is every thing in his house, but every
thing gets destroyed later.
If Rahu in 11th house is malefic then the native has bad relations with his father or he may even kill
him.
Planet in 2nd house would act as enemy. If Jupiter/Saturn are in 3rd or 11th house then wear iron on
the body and drink water in a silver glass.
If Ketu is in 5th house then Ketu gives bad results. There may be diseases of ear, spine, urinary
problems etc. There may be losses associated with business concerned with Ketu.
Remedies
1. Wear iron. Use silver glass for drinking water.
2. Never take any electric equipment as a gift.
3. Do not keep blue sapphire, ivory or toys in the shape of an elephant.
Rahu in 12th House
12th house belongs to Jupiter. It signifies bedroom.
Rahu here gives mental troubles, insomnia. It also leads to excessive expenditure on sisters and
daughters.
If Rahu is with its enemies then it becomes next to impossible to make ends meet, despite hard
labour. It also leads to false allegations. One may even go to the extreme of contemplating suicide.
One has mental worries.
Telling lies, deceiving others etc. may make Rahu even more malefic. If some body sneezes at the
start of any new work if gives malefic effect. There may be theft, diseases or false allegations.
If Mars is with Rahu here, then it gives good results.
Remedies
1. Take your meals in the kitchen itself.
2. Keep Saunf and Khand under the pillow for good nights sleep.
10. Ketu : Effects And Remedies
Ketu, according to the author of Lal Kitab, represents son, grandson, ear,
spine etc. 6th house is considered to be its Pucca Ghar. It gives its exalted
effect when in 5th, 9th or 12th house and its debilitated effect in 6th and 8th
house. Dawn is its time and it represents Sunday.
Ketu represents the opposite node of Ketu, in the tail of the serpent. Its colours are black and white.
Venus and Rahu are its friends, whereas Moon and Mars are its enemies .
Forty two years is the age of Ketu. Ketu is also considered to be the bed. So the bed given by in-laws
after marriage is considered to be auspicious for the birth of a son and as long as that bed is in the
house, the effect of Ketu can never be inauspicious.
Ketu in 1st House
If Ketu is auspicious or benefic in this house, the native will be laborious, rich and happy, but will
always be concerned and troubled because of his progeny. He may fear frequent transfers or travels,
but ultimately it would always be postponed.
Whenever Ketu comes in 1st house in Varsha Kundli there may be birth of a son or nephew. There
may also be a long journey. The native with Ketu in 1st house will always be beneficial for his
father and/or Guru and causes exaltation of Sun.
If Ketu in 1st house is malefic, the native would suffer from headache. His wife would have health
problems and would have worries concerning kids. If 2nd and 7th houses are empty then Mercury
and Venus would also give bad results. There would be travels, transfers with no gain. If Saturn is
malefic it would destroy father and Guru.
If Sun is in 7th or 8th house then after the birth of a grandson the health would suffer. No alms
should be given in morning and evening.
Remedies
1. Feed jaggery (Gur) to monkeys.
2. Apply saffron as Tilak.
3. If offspring is troubled then donate a black and white blanket to temple.
Ketu in 2nd House
2nd house is affected by Moon, which is an enemy of Ketu.
If Ketu in 2nd house is benefic then one gets paternal property. One has to travel a lot and his travels
are fruitful. Venus gives good results, irrespective of its position. Moon would give bad results. If
Sun is in 12th house then one starts earning his livelihood after twenty four years and is happy. If
Jupiter is exalted along with Ketu in 2nd house, then income would be in lacs of rupees.
If Ketu in 2nd house is malefic, then one has to travel to dry areas. One cannot rest at one place and
would be wandering from place to place. Income may be good, but so would be the expenditure.
Thus net gain would be negligible. If there is Moon or Mars in 8th house then natives life would
be short and he would have serious problem at the age of sixteen or twenty years.
If 8th house is empty then Ketu would give malefic results.
Remedies
1. Apply turmeric or saffron as Tilak.
2. One should not be of loose character.
3. If one religiously visits temples and bows his head there then Ketu in 2nd house would give
good results.
Ketu in 3rd House
3rd house is affected by Mercury and Mars, both enemies of Ketu. Number 3 would have an important role in the life of the native.
If Ketu in 3rd house is benefic then his children would be good. The native would be God fearing
and a gentleman. If Ketu is in 3rd house and Mars is in 12th then the native has a son before 24th
year of age. The son would be good for wealth and longevity of the native.
The native with Ketu in 3rd house usually gets a job, which entails long travels.
If Ketu in 3rd house is malefic then native loses money in litigation. He gets separated from his
wife/sisters-in-law. If such a native lives in a house with its main gate facing south, he will have
serious problems regarding children.
Such a native cannot say no to any thing and so will always have worries. He will have troubles
from his brothers and will have to travel uselessly.
Remedies
1. Use saffron as Tilak.
2. Wear gold.
3. Offer jaggery, rice in flowing water.
Ketu in 4th house
4th house belongs to Moon, which is an enemy of Ketu. If Ketu is benefic in 4th house then the
native is God fearing and lucky for his father and Guru. Son is born to such a native only after
getting the blessings of ones Guru. The son born lives long. Such a native leaves all his decisions
to God.
If Moon is in 3rd or 4th house the result is benefic. Such a native is a good adviser and will never
have shortage of money. If Ketu is malefic in this house then the native is unhealthy, his mother is
troubled, there is loss of happiness. One may suffer from diabetes. A son is born after thirty six
years of age. Such a native has more daughters than sons.
Remedies
1. Keep a dog.
2. Wear silver for peace of mind.
3. Offer yellow things in flowing water.
Ketu in 5th House
5th house belongs to Sun. It is also affected by Jupiter. If Jupiter, Sun or Moon is in 4th, 6th or 12th
house then ones financial condition will be excellent and the native will have five sons. Ketu
becomes benefic by itself after twenty four years of age.
If Ketu in 5th house is malefic then the native suffers from asthma. Ketu gives malefic results till
five years of age. Sons will not survive. Livelihood starts after twenty four years of age. The native
is unlucky for ones sons.
Remedies
1. Donate milk and sugar.
2. The remedies of Jupiter would be useful.
Ketu in 6th House
6th house belongs to Mercury. Ketu in 6th house is considered debilitated. This is Pucca house of
Ketu. Here again the effect of Ketu depends upon the nature of Jupiter. It gives good result regarding son. The native is a good adviser.
If Jupiter is benefic then the native has a long life and his mother is happy and the life is peaceful.
If any two of the male planets viz Sun, Jupiter, Mars are in good position then Ketu is benefic.
If Ketu is malefic in 6th house then maternal uncle suffers . The native has to suffer due to useless
travels. People turn into enemies without any reason. The native suffers from skin diseases. If
Moon is in 2nd house then mother suffers and even the natives old age is troubled.
Remedies
1. Wear golden ring in the finger of left hand.
2. Drink milk with saffron and wear gold in the ear.
3. Heat up a rod of gold and then dip it in milk. Then drink it. It would restore mental peace,
increase longevity and is good for sons.
4. Keep a dog.
Ketu in 7th House
7th house belongs to Mercury and Venus . If Ketu in 7th house is benefic then the native gets the
wealth of forty years in twenty four years of age. The wealth increases in proportion to the children
one has.
The natives enemies are frightened of the native.
If one has the help of Mercury, Jupiter or Venus then the native is never disappointed.
If Ketu in 7th house is malefic then the native is usually ill, makes false promises and is troubled
by enemies till thirty four years of age. If there are more than one planet in Lagna then ones children
are destroyed. If one abuses then the native is destroyed.
If Ketu is with Mercury then after thirty four years of age the natives enemies are destroyed by
themselves.
Remedies
1. Never make a false promise, be proud, or abusive.
2. Use saffron as Tilak.
3. In case of serious trouble use the remedies of Jupiter.
Ketu in 8th house
8th house belongs to Mars, which is an enemy of Ketu. If Ketu in 8th house is benefic then the
native begets a son at thirty four years of age, or after the marriage of ones sister or daughter.
If Jupiter or Mars are not in 6th and 12th house then Ketu does not give malefic results. Similar
effect is there when Moon is in 2nd house.
If Ketu in 8th house is malefic then the natives wife has ill health. Son will not be born, or may die.
The native may suffer from diabetes or urinary problem.
If Saturn or Mars are in 7th then the native is unlucky.
In case of malefic Ketu in 8th house the natives character determines the health of his wife.
After twenty six years of age the family life suffers.
Remedies
1. Keep a dog.
2. Donate a black and white blanket in any temple.
3. Worship Lord Ganesha.
4. Wear gold in the ear.
5. Use saffron as Tilak.
Ketu in 9th House
9th house belongs to Jupiter, which favours Ketu. Ketu in 9th house is considered to be exalted.
Such a native is obedient and lucky. It increases ones wealth.
If Ketu is benefic then one earns wealth through ones own labour. There will be progress but no
transfer.
If one keeps gold brick in his house then wealth comes.
The son of such a native is able to guess the future.
One spends a big part of his life in foreign land .
One has at least three sons and if 2nd house is auspicious then Ketu gives excellent results .
If Moon is auspicious then the native helps his mothers family.
If Ketu in 9th house is malefic then the native suffers from urinary problems, pain in back, problem
in legs.
The natives sons keep on dying.
Remedies
1. Keep a dog.
2. Establish a rectangular piece of gold anywhere in the house.
3. Wear gold in the ear.
4. Respect elders, specially father- in- law.
Ketu in 10th house.
10th house belongs to Saturn. The effect of Ketu here depends upon the nature of Saturn. If Ketu is
benefic here then the native is lucky, concerned about himself and opportunist. His father dies early.
If Saturn is in 6th then one is a famous player.
If one keeps on forgiving his brothers for their misdeeds the native will go on progressing. If the
character of native is good then he earns a lot of wealth.
If Ketu in 10th house is malefic then one suffers from urinary and ear problems. The native has
pain in bones.
The domestic life is full of worries and troubled if Saturn is in 4th house. Three sons would die.
Remedies
1. Keep silver pot full of honey in the house.
2. Keep a dog, specially after forty eight years of age.
3. Avoid adultery.
4. Use the remedies of Moon and Jupiter.
Ketu in 11th House
Here Ketu is considered very good. It gives wealth. This house is affected by Jupiter and Saturn.
If Ketu is benefic here and Saturn is in 3rd house, it gives enormous wealth. The wealth earned by
the native is more than his paternal wealth, but one tends to worry about his future.
If Mercury is in 3rd it leads to Raj Yoga.
If Ketu is malefic here then the native has problem in his abdomen. The more he worries about
future, more troubled he is. Grandmother or mother of the native suffers, if Saturn is also malefic.
Then there would be no benefit from son or house.
Remedies
1. Keep black dog.
2. Wear an onyx or emerald.
Ketu in 12th House
Here Ketu is considered to be exalted. The native is wealthy, achieves a big position and spends on
good works.
If Rahu is in 6th house, along with Mercury, then the effect is even better. One has all the benefits
and luxuries of life.
If Ketu in 12th house is malefic then one buys land from an issueless person and the native becomes
issueless himself.
If one kills dogs Ketu gives malefic results.
If 2nd house has Moon, Venus or Mars, Ketu gives malefic results.
Remedies
1. Worship Lord Ganesha.
2. Do not have a loose character.
3. Keep a dog.
11. Striking Principles and Precautions
The author of Lal Kitab has enunciated such significant principles of astrology that stand well tested today and as such they are of utmost importance in
our day to day life. In view of this, an effort is being made here to describe
some unfailing principles and astrological precautions for the benefit of people
at large.
Residential Houses
To begin with, no temple with idols should be constructed even for individual worship in a residential house. However, keeping photos or drawings of deities on paper is not prohibited. This is highly
inauspicious for the natives born with Jupiter in 7th house.
If there is a small dark room at the end of the house, where there is no passage for air or light, the
same should be left as it is and no attempt should be made to facilitate natural light through opening
windows etc. in that room; otherwise, misfortunes will strike the residents.
Places where ornaments or money is kept secretly must not be left empty. If there is nothing to be
kept, please put some dry fruits there.
There must necessarily be some uncemented place in a house. But if it is not feasible, the articles
related to Venus must be installed and established therein.
Safe Delivery and Longevity of Children
 Worship of lord Ganesh is highly auspicious for children and property.
 For safe delivery of children, a milk pot filled with milk and a sugar pot filled with sugar must be
touched by the delivering mother and kept at some different place. After the delivery both the pots
should be offered to some temple and should not be brought back from there. Good effects will
multiply if the quality of the pots is good.
 If ones children do not survive the native must distribute salty preparations in place of sweets, to
celebrate the birth of the child.
Alms and Charity
 Digging of wells or providing drinking water facilities for public is strictly prohibited for those
with Moon in 6th house of the birth chart. Any violation of the above would invite utter destruction
and extreme poverty.
 Building of Dharmshalas, Sarais or inns is strictly
prohibited for those having Saturn in 8th house.
 Saturn in Lagna and Jupiter in 5th house cause death of children one after the other, if copper
coins are given in charity.
 Jupiter in 10th and Moon in 4th cause false allegations and critical legal proceedings against the
native if he builds temples or Gurudwaras.
 Financial aid to widows and scholarships to poor children are strictly prohibited for those having
Venus in 9th house.
 Grave consequences would folllow if a native with Moon in 12th house opens schools for free
education, or offers food to religious saints and Jogins.
 Anyone having Jupiter in 7th house must not offer clothes to anyone in charity
 Donations in the morning and evening hours by persons having Sun in 7th or 8th house of their
horoscope will produce highly harmful and poisonous effects.
Adoption
The younger brother should never go for adoption of children of the elder brother. At the same time
he should also not arrange the free marriage of the daughter of his elder brother. These practices
would certainly lead to disastrous consequences.
Selection of Bridegrooms
 Saturn in 11th house makes the native desert his wife and children in young age, whereas Saturn
in the boys 2nd house proves inauspicious for the brides family.
 Mercury and Rahu combining in houses 3, 8, 9, or 12 of the groom is also inauspicious for the
brides family.
 Venus and Ketu together in Lagna make the native impotent.
 The groom is likely to be of bad sexual habits and may destroy his wealth in that, if the planetary
positions are as follows :
(a) Sun in 6th and Mars in 10th with the afflicted 12th house.
(b) Moon in Lagna and Jupiter in 11th house .
(c) Jupiter and Venus in 10th house.
Remedies Applicabale to All.
 Sweet loaves of bread, specially baked in Tandoor, should be offered to animals every month for
warding off sickness, quarrels and other troubles, caused by Mars negative in the horoscope.
 Place a pot of water under the headside of the bed at night and pour it on a tree or plant in the
morning.
 Taking meals in the kitchen is a strong safeguard against the mischiefs of Rahu.
 From ones own meal a Chapati or a piece of it must be offered to cows, crows and dogs for
allround well being and prosperity.
Further, we all believe that going to a temple for offering prayer is always a good thing, which must
be admired and encouraged. But according to Lal Kitab, the native having a malefic planet, especially Saturn in 8th house, when 2nd house is empty, must not visit temples or other places of
worship. Rather he should bow his head from outside. Similarly, if planets occupying 6th, 8th and
12th houses are inimical to each other and 2nd house is not occupied by any planet, the native must
avoid visiting temples and other religious places of worship.
The most striking thing about Lal Kitab is that it enshrines due admiration for Vedic culture and
philosophy of the Hindus. Living in a joint family has been suggested as a powerful remedial
measure and if for some reason this is not possible the native should sleep on the bed sheet which
was used by his father. In other cases the native has been asked to obtain the blessings of parents
and elders etc. as an amulet against the evil. It is worth pointing out that such simple and innocent
remedies have worked wonders in tested cases.
