2. Sun : Effects and Remedies
The second chapter of Lal Kitab, termed as the wonder Book of Astrology, details
the effects of Sun in various houses alongwith the remedies.
The sun, eulogised by the author of the Lal Kitab as Vishnu, the lord of presentation, is the father of
our solar system, around which all planets resulve. The power of light in the sky, the temperature of
the earth, the power of presentation and progress are represented by the sun. His presence means
the day and absence means the night. The soul in human body and the power of rendering
bodily services to others have also been referred to the Sun - a royal planet of power, authority and
finances.
The Sun provides good results if placed in houses 1 to 5,8,9,11 and 12. The 6th, 7th, and 10th are
bad houses for the Sun. The Moon, the Jupiter and the Mars are the planets friendly to the Sun,
where the Saturn, Venus, Rahu and Ketu are enemies. The first is the Puccka Ghar, the permanent
house and the house of exaltation of the Sun, whereas the 7th house is in the house of debilitation.
The Mars in the 6th and Ketu in the Ist house make the Sun produce results of an exalted planet. If
the Sun is exalted or placed in an auspicious house of a persons horoscope he is bound to rise
higher and higher in power and position. If obstacles are created against him by a person that person
is bound to meet his doom. Much better results are proposed if the Sun is in conjunction with
Mercury.
The Sun gives adverse effects on the things associated with the house in which he is placed. Consequently in the Ist house he will create health problems for the native. In the 2nd house he will affect
the family and its comforts absolutely adversely.
The sun in the 6th house will not prove good for the sisters and daughters of the native. In the 7th he
will face obstacles in the comforts of the wife. The Sun of the 8th house will saue the native from
death in critical situations.
The sun of the 9th house will destroy the comforts of the forefathers and perhaps deprive the native
of their properties. In the 10th, the sun will affect the father adversely. The sun in the 11th increases
and multiplies the income of the native manifold, if he does not augment the power of Saturn by
cosumption of liquor, meat and eggs. The Sun in the 12th house destroys the comforts of the night
hour sleep of the native.
The Sun will not be able to harm Venus when sun is being aspected by Saturn because Saturn and Venus are great
friends. On the contrary, if Saturn is being aspected by Sun, then the Sun will not be afraid of Saturn and he
will destroy the Venus as both are natural enemies in the house where he is placed.
The effects of the Sun in both the situations in different houses are as below :
Sun in Ist House
Benefic :
(1) The native will be fond of constructing religious buildings and digging of wells for public
purposes. He will have permanent source of livelihood- more from the government. Money earned
from honest sources will keep multiplying. He will believe only his eyes, not in ears.
Malefic :
The natives father may die in early childhood. Having sex in the day time will make the wife
constantly ill and have infection of tuberclosis if Venus is placed in the 7th house. Malefic sun in
the 1st house and Mars in the 5th house will cause the death of sons, one after the other. Similarly,
the malefic Sun in the Ist house and Saturn in the 8th house will cause the death of wives, one after
the other. If there is no planet in the 7th house the marriage before 24th year will prove lucky for the
native, otherwise the 24th year of the native would prove highly disastrous for him
Remedial Measures :
(1) Marry before 24th year of life.
(2) Dont have sex with wife during the day time.
(3) Install a hand pump for water in your ancestral house.
(4) Construct small dark room in the left side at the end of your house.
(5) Either of the spouse must stop eating GUR i.e. jaggery.
Sun in 2nd house
Benefic :
(1) The native will be self-dependent, skilled in handiwork and would prove highly helpful to
parents, maternal uncles, sisters, daughters and in-laws.
(2) The Sun in the 2nd will become more auspicious if the Moon is placed in the 6th house.
(3) Ketu in the 8th house will make the native very truthful.
(4) Rahu in the 9th house makes the native a renowned artist or a painter.
(5) Ketu in the 9th house makes him a great technician.
(6) Mars in the 9th house makes him fashionable.
(7) The generous nature of the native would put an end to growing enemies.
Malefic :
(1) The Sun will affect very adversely the things and relatives associated with the planets inimical
to the Sun i.e., wife, wealth, widows, cows, taste, mother etc. Disputes regarding wealth property
and wife will spoil the native.
(2) Never accept donations if the Moon is placed in the 8th house and the Sun in the 2nd house is
not auspicious; otherwise the native will be destroyed altogether.
(3) The Sun in the 2nd house, Mars in the 1st and Moon in the 12th house make the natives
condition critical and pathetic in every manner.
(4) Mars in the 8th house makes the native extremely greedy if the Sun in the 2nd house is inauspicious.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Donate coconut, mustard oil and almonds to religious places of worship.
(2) Manage to avoid disputes involving wealth, property and ladies.
(3) Avoid accepting donations, specially rice, silver and milk.
Sun in 3rd House
Benefic :
(1) The native will be rich, self-dependant and having younger brothers.
(2) He will be blessed with divine grace and will earn profits intellectual by pursuits.
(3) He will be interested in astrology and mathematics.
Melefic :
(1) If the Sun is not auspicious in the 3rd house and the Moon is also not auspicious in the horoscope, there will be daylight robbery or theft in the natives house.
(2) If the 9th house is afflicted, the forefathers would have been poor. If the 1st house is afflicted,
the neighbours of the native will be destroyed.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Obtain blessings of the mother by keeping her happy.
(2) Serve others with rice or milk.
(3) Practice good conduct and avoid evil deeds.
Sun in 4th House -
Benefic :
(1) The native will be wise, kind and a good administrator. He will have constant source of income.
He will leave a legacy of great riches for his offsprings after death.
(2) If the Moon is with the Sun in the 4th house, the native will earn great profit through certain new
researches.
(3) The Mercury in the 10th or 4th house will make such a native a renowned trader.
(4) If Jupiter is also with the Sun in the 4th house, the native will make good profits through gold
and silver trade.
Malefic :
(1) The native becomes greedy, inclined to commit theft and likes to harm others. This tendency
ultimately produces very bad results.
(2) If the Saturn is placed in the 7th house he becomes victimised by night blindness.
(3) If the Sun is inauspicious in the 7th house and mars is placed in the 10th house, the natives eye
will become seriously defective, but his fortunes will not dwindle.
(4) The native will become impotent if the Sun in the 4th is inauspicious and the Moon is placed in
the 1st or 2nd house, the Venus is in the 5th and Saturn is in the 7th house.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Distribute alms and food to the needy people.
(2) Do not take up business associated with iron and wood.
(3) Business associated with gold, silver, cloth will give very good results.
Sun in 5th house
Benefic :
(1) The progress and prosperity of family and children will be assured. If the Mars is placed in the
1st or 8th house and Rahu, Ketu, Saturn are placed in 9th and 12th houses, the native will lead
kings life.
(2) If in 5th house placed with any planet inimical to sun, the native will be bestowed hour by the
government everywhere.
(3) If Jupiter is placed in 9th or 12th house, the enemies will be destroyed, but this position will not
be good for children of the native.
Malefic :
(1) If the Sun in the 5th is inauspicious and Jupiter is in 10th, the wife of the native will die and
wives in subsequent marriages will also die
(2) If the sun in the 5th house is inauspicious and Saturn is placed in 3rd, sous of the native will die.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Do not delay in having a child.
(2) Build your kitchen in the eastern portion of your house.
(3) Drop a lit the quantity of mustard oil on the ground continously for 43 days.
Sun in 6th House
Benefic :
(1) Native will be lucky, prone to anger, will have beautiful spouse and will benefit from that
government.
(2) If Sun is in the 6th house and Moon, Mars and Jupiter in the 2nd house, following tradition will
be beneficial.
(3) If sun is in 6th house and Ketu in 1st or 7th house then the native will have a son and after the
48th year great fortune will follow.
Malefic :
(1) The natives son and maternal family will face bad times. Will also affect native health adversely.
(2) If there is a no planet in the 2nd house, the native will get a government job in the 22nd year of
his life.
(3) If Mars is placed in the 10th house the natives sons will die one after the other.
(4) Mercury in the 12th house causes high blood pressure.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Ancestral customs and ritu als should be strictly followed; otherwise the family progress and
happiness will be destroyed.
(2) Underground furnaces should not be constructed with in the premises of the house.
(3) After taking dinner blow off the fire of the kitchen stove by sprinkling milk over it.
(4) Always keep Gangajal in the premises of your house.
(5) Offer wheat or Gur to monkeys.
Sun in 7th House
Benefic :
(1) If Jupiter, Mars or Moon are placed in the 2nd house, the native will occupy a ministerial
position in the government.
(2) If the Mercury is exalted or Mercury in the 5th or 7th house is aspected by Mars, the native will
have unending sources of income.
Malefic :
(1) If the Sun is inauspicious in the 7th house and Jupiter, venus or any malefic planet is placed in
the 11th house and Mercury is malefic in any other house, the native will encounter the death of
several members of his family together. Obstacles from the government, diseases like tuberclosis
and asthma will vicitimise the native. Incidents of fire, emberlement and other family troubles will
madden the native who may go to the extent of becoming a recluse or commiting suicide.
(2) Malefic Sun in the 7th and Mars or Saturn in the 2nd or 12th house and Moon in the 1st house
cause leprosy or lucoderma.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Lessen the amount of salt intake.
(2) Start any work after taking a little sweet with water.
(3) Offer a little piece of your chapati to the fire of the kitchen before taking your meals.
(4) Serving and rearing up a black cow or a cow without horns, but make sure that the cow is not
white.
Sun in 8th House
Benefic :
(1) Government favours will accrue from the 22nd year of life.
(2) Here the Sun makes the native truthful, saintly and king like. Nobody would be able to harm
him.
Malefic :
(1) Mercury in the 2nd house will create economic crisis.
(2) Native will be short tempered, impatient & will have ill health.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Never keep a white cloth in the house.
(2) Never live in the house facing south.
(3) Always eat something sweet and drink water before starting any new work.
(4) Throw copper coins in a burning pyre (Chita) whenever possible.
(5) Throw Gur (jaggery) in running water.
Sun in 9th House
Benefic :
(1) Native will be lucky, good natured will have good family life and will always help others.
(2) If Mercury is in the 5th house, the native will have fortune after 34 years.
Malefic :
(1) Native will be evil and troubled by his brothers.
(2) Disfavour from government and loss of reputation.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Never accept articles of silver as gifts or donation. Donate silver articles frequently.
(2) Ancestral pots and utensils of brass must be used and not sold.
(3) Avoid extreme anger and extreme softness.
Sun in 10th House
Benefic :
(1) Benefits and favours from government, good health and financially stronger.
(2) The native will get a government job and comforts of vehicles and servants.
(3) The native will always be suspicious about others.
Malefic :
(1) If the Sun is in the 4th house, the natives father will die in his childhood.
(2) If the Sun is in the 10th house and moon is in the 5th house the native will have a very short life.
(3) If the 4th house is without any planet, the native will be deprived of government favours and
benefits.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Never wear blue or black clothes.
(2) Throwing a copper coin in a river or canal for 43 years will be highly beneficial.
(3) Abstain from liquor and meat.
Sun in 11th House
Benefic :
(1) If the native is vegetarian he will have three sons and will himself be head of the house and will
get benefits from government.
Malefic :
(1) The Moon is in the 5th house and the Sun is not aspected by good planets, the will have a short
life span.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Abstain from meat and wine.
(2) Keep almonds or radishes near the head of the bed and offer it in the temple next day for long
life and children.
12th House
Benefic :
(1) If Ketu in the 2nd house the native will earn wealth after 24 years and will have good family life.
(2) If Venus and Mercury are together their then one will benefit from business and the native will
always have steady source of income.
Malefic :
Native will suffer from depression, financial loss from machineries and will be punished by the
government.
If the other evil planet is in the 1st house, the native will not be able to sleep peacefully at night.
Remedial Measures :
(1) Native should always have a courtyard in his house.
(2) One should be religious and truthful.
(3) Keep a Chakki in the house.
(4) Always forgive your enemies.
3. Moon : Effects and Remedies
As explained in the preceding issue, the Sun is regarded as the generator of power
that gives spirit and life to all planets, the Moon is considered to be the conductor
of power lent by Sun and rules over the lives of the beings on this earth. Sun
represents individuality, whereas Moon shows ones personality.
Moon governs over impregnation, conception, birth of a child and the animal instinct. She represents mother, mothers family, grandmother, old women, horse, navigation, agricultural land, Lord
Shiva, love, kindness, mental peace, heart, services rendered for others welfare and the 4th house.
The Moons effect comes up in the 16th, 51st and 86th year of the native and similarly its 1st cycle
falls in the 24th year, the 2nd in the 49th year and the 3rd cycle falls in the 94th year of the native.
The Jupiter, Sun and Mars are Moons friends, whereas Saturn, Rahu and Ketu are inimical to her.
For her protection, the Moon sacrifies her friendly planets - Sun, Mars or Jupiter. Moon is the Lord
of 4th house, stands exalted in the 2nd house of Taurus and becomes debilitated in the 8th house of
Scorpio. The Moon provides very good results if placed in houses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 9 whereas the
6th, 8th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses are bad for the Moon. The death of a domestic milch animal or
a horse, drying up of a persons well or pond, the loss of the senses of touching and feeling are the
signs of moon turning malefic.
The placement of the Ketu in the 4th house causes Matri Rina i.e. mothers debt. In such a situation
pieces of silver of equal weight and size be collected from every member of the family and the same
should be thrown together into the running water of a river. Consequently all the ill effects would be
warded off.
Moon in Ist House
In general, the 1st house belongs to Mars and Sun. When the moon is also placed therein, this house
will come under the combined influences of the Mars, the Sun and the Moon i.e. all the 3 mutual
friends will be treated as occupants of this house. The Sun and Mars will extend all friendly support
to their natural friend Moon placed on the throne i.e. the ascendant house.
Such native will be soft-hearted and will inherit all the traits and qualities of his mother. He will be
either the eldest brother or will certainly be treated so. As long as the native receives the blessings
of his mother and keeps her happy, he will continue to rise and prosper in every way.
The things and the relatives as represented by Mercury, who is inimical to Moon, will prove harmful to the native, e.g., the sister-in-law and the green color will affect adversely. Hence it is better to
keep away from them.
Burning milk (for making Khoya) or selling milk for profit would reduce or minimize the power of
the Moon placed in the 1st house, which means that the natives life and property would be destroyed if he engages himself in such activities. Such a native should serve others with water and
milk freely for long life and all round prosperity. Such a native will get a life of about 90 years and
will be bestowed with honours and fame by the Govt.
Remedies
1. Do not marry between the age of 24 and 27 years, i.e., marry either before 24 years of age or
after 27 years of age.
2. Do not build a house out of your earnings between 24 and 27 years of age.
3. Keep away from the green colour and sister-in-law. Do not keep a silver pot or kettle with a
snout (Toti) in it in the house.
4. Offer water to the roots of a Banyan tree whenever you can afford.
5. Insert copper nails on the four corners of your bed.
6. Whenever crossing a river, always throw coins in it for the welfare of your children.
7. Always keep a silver Thali in your house.
8. Use Silver pots for drinking water or milk and avoid the use of glassware for the same.
Moon in 2nd House
The results of the 2nd house, when Moon is placed therein, will be influenced by Jupiter, Venus and
the Moon, because this is the Puckka Ghar, the permanent house of Jupiter and Venus is the lord of
the second Rashi Taurus. The Moon gives very good results in this house, as it becomes very strong
here because of the friendly support of Jupiter against Venus.
Such a native may not have sisters, but will certainly be having brothers. In case he doesnt have,
his wife will certainly have brothers. He will certainly receive his due share in parental properties.
Whatever be the planetary position otherwise, but the Moon here will ensure male offspring to the
native.
The native will receive good education, which will add to his fortune. The Business associated with
the things of the Moon will prove highly advantageous. He may be a reputed teacher also.
The Ketu placed in the 12th house will cause eclipse of the Moon here, which will deprive the
native either of good education or of male children.
Remedies
1. Temple within the natives house may deprive the native of male issue.
2. The things associated with the Moon, i.e., silver, rice, non-cemented floor of the house, the
mother and old women and their blessings will prove very lucky for the native.
3. Offering green colour clothes to small girls continuously for 43 days.
4. Place the things associated with the Moon into the foundation of your house, e.g., a square
piece of silver.
Moon in 3rd House
The results of the 3rd house, when the Moon is placed therein, will be influenced by the Mars,
Mercury and Moon. Here the Moon proves highly beneficial to ensure a long life and great wealth
or riches for the native.
If there are no planets in the 9th and 11th houses, then Mars and Venus will give good results to the
native because of the Moon being in the 3rd house.
With the advancement of the natives education and learning, the economic condition of his father
will deteriorate, but without affecting his education adversely. If Ketus placing in the horoscope is
auspicious and not harming the Moon in the 3rd, the education of the native will bear good fruits
and prove advantageous in every manner.
If the Moon is malefic, it will cause great loss of wealth and money at the age of the malefic planet
placed in the 9th house.
Remedies
1. Offer in donation the things associated with the Moon, e.g., silver or rice, after the birth of a
daughter and the things associated with the Sun e.g., wheat and jaggery when a son is born.
2. Do not make use of your daughters money and wealth.
3. To avoid the evil effects of a malefic planet in the 8th house, serve the guests and others by
offering them milk and water freely.
4. Worshipping Goddess Durga and obtaining the blessings of small girls by touching their feet
after serving them food and sweets.
Moon in 4th House
The results of the 4th house are the general product of the total influences of Moon, the lord of the
4th Rashi Cancer and the permanent resident of the 4th house. Here the Moon becomes very strong
and powerful in every manner.
The use of, and association with the things represented by the Moon will prove highly beneficial to
the native. Offer milk in place of water to the guests. Obtain blessings of your mother or the elderly
women by touching their feet. The 4th house is the river of income which will continue to increase
expenditure. In other words, expenditure will augment income.
The native will be a reputed and honoured person with soft heart and all sorts of riches. He will
inherit all the traits and qualities of his mother and will face the problems of life boldly like a lion.
He will receive honour and favours from the government along with riches and will provide peace
and shelter to others.
Good education will be ensured for the native. If Jupiter is placed in the 6th house and Moon in the
4th, parental profession will suit him. If a person has mortgaged certain valuables to the native, he
will never come back to demand it.
If Moon be placed with 4 planets in the 4th house, the native will be economically very strong and
wealthy. The male planets will help the native like sons and the female planets like daughters.
Remedies
1. Selling of milk for profit and burning of milk for making Khoya, etc., will have a very adverse
effects on income, life span and mental peace.
2. Adultery and flirtation will be seriously detrimental to the natives reputation and prospects of
wealth gains.
3. The more the expenses, the more the income.
4. Before beginning any auspicious or new work, place a pitcher or any container filled with milk
in the house.
5. For warding off the evil generated by the Jupiter placed in the 10th house, the native should
visit places of worship along with his grandfather and offer their oblations by placing their
forehead at the feet of the deity.
Moon in 5th House
The results of the 5th house, when the Moon is placed therein, will be influenced by the Sun, the
Ketu and the Moon. The native will adopt just and right means to earn wealth and will not yield to
wrong doing. He may not do well in business but certainly receive favours and honours from the
government. Anyone supported by him will win.
The Moon in the 5th house will give 5 sons if the Ketu is well placed and benefic even if the Moon
is joined by malefic planets. By his education and learning the native will undertake several measures for others welfare, but the others will not do good to him.
Further, the native will be destroyed if he becomes greedy and selfish. If he fails to keep his plans a
secret, his own men will damage him seriously.
Remedies
1. Keep control over your tongue. Never use abusive language to ward off troubles.
2. Avoid becoming greedy and over selfish.
3. Deceit and dishonesty towards others will affect you adversely.
4. Acting upon the advice of another person before trying to harm anybody will ensure very good
results and a life of about 100 years.
5. Public service will enhance income and reputation of the native.
Moon in 6th House
This house is affected by the Mercury and Ketu. The Moon in this house will be affected by the
planets placed in the 2nd, 8th, 12th and 4th houses. The native will receive education with obstacles
and will have to struggle a lot for reaping the benefits of his educational achievements.
If the Moon is placed in the 6th, 2nd, 4th, 8th and 12th houses it is auspicious. The native would
enliven a dying person by putting a few drops of water in his mouth.
But if the Moon is malefic in the 6th house and Mercury is placed in the 2nd or 12th house, the
native will have suicidal tendencies. Similarly, if the Moon is malefic and the Sun is placed in the
12th house, then the native or his wife or both will have severe eye defects and troubles.
Remedies
1. Serve milk to your father with your own hands.
2. Never take milk during night. But intake of milk during day time and use of even curd and
cheese during night is permissible.
3. Do not offer milk as donation. It can be given only at religious places of worship.
4. Digging of wells for public will destroy the issues, but digging of wells in a hospital or within
the premises of cremation ground will not be harmful.
Moon in 7th house
The 7th house belongs to Venus and Mercury. When the Moon is placed here, the results of this
house will be affected by the Venus, Mercury and Moon. Venus and Mercury combined together
give the effects of the Sun. The 1st house aspects the 7th house. Consequently the rays of the Sun
from the 1st house would be enlightening the Moon if placed in the 7th, which means that the things
and the relatives represented by the Moon will provide highly beneficial and good results.
Educational achievements will prove fruitful for earning money or wealth. He may or may not have
properties but will certainly have cash money in hand always. He will have good potential for being
a poet or astrologer, or else he will be characterless and will have great love for mysticism and
spiritualism.
The 7th Moon also denotes conflict between the natives wife and mother, adverse effects in milk
trade. Disobedience towards mother will cause overall tensions and troubles.
Remedies
1. Avoid marriage in the 24th year of your life.
2. Always your mother keep happy.
3. Never sell milk or water for profit.
4. Do not burn milk for making Khoya.
5. Ensure that in marriage your wife brings silver and rice with her from her parents, equal to her
weight.
Moon in 8th House
This house belongs to Mars and Saturn. The Moon here affects the education of the native adversely, but if education goes well the natives mothers life will be shortened and very often such
a native loses both -education and the mother. However, the evil effects of the Moon in the 7th
house will be mitigated if Jupiter and Saturn be placed in the 2nd house.
The 7th Moon often deprives the native of his parental properties. If there is a well or pond adjacent
to the parental property of the native, he will receive adverse results of the Moon all through his
life.
Remedies
1. Avoid gambling and flirting.
2. Perform Shraddha ceremony for to your ancestors.
3. Do not build any house after covering a well with roof.
4. Obtain blessings of the old men and children by touching their feet.
5. Bring water from the well or water tap situated within the boundaries of a cremation ground
and place it within your house. It will ward off all the evils generated by the Moon in the 7th
house.
6. Offer gram and pulse in places of worship.
Moon in 9th House
The 9th house belongs to Jupiter, who is a great friend of the Moon. Hence the native will imbibe
the traits and features of both these planets - good conduct, soft heartedness, religious bent of mind
and love for virtuous acts and pilgrimage. He will live upto 75 years. A friendly planet in the 5th
house will augment comforts and pleasures from the son and develops intense interest in religious
deeds. A friendly planet in the 3rd house ensures great increase in money and wealth.
Remedies
1. Install the things associated with the Moon within the house, e.g., place a square piece of silver
in the almirah.
2. Serve the labourers with milk.
3. Offer milk to snakes and rice to fish.
Moon in 10th House
The 10th house is in every manner ruled by Saturn. This house is aspected by the 4th house, which
is similarly ruled by Moon. Hence the Moon in the 10th house ensures a long life of about 90 years
for the native. Moon and Saturn are inimical, therefore, medicines in liquid form will always prove
harmful to him. The milk will act as poison if taken during night. If he is a medical practitioner, dry
medicines administered by him to the patient will have a magical effect for cure. If a surgeon, he
will earn great wealth and fame for surgery. If the 2nd and 4th houses are empty money and wealth
will rain on him.
If Saturn is placed in the 1st house, the natives life will be destroyed by the opposite sex, especially
a widow.
The things and business represented by Saturn will prove beneficial for the native.
Remedies
1. Visits to religious places of worship will enhance the fortune of the native.
2. Store the natural water of rain or the river in a container and keep it within your house for 15
years. It will wash off the poisons and evil effects generated by the Moon in the 10th house.
3. Avoid taking milk during night.
4. Milch animals can neither live long in your house nor will they prove beneficial or auspicious.
5. Abstain from wine, meat and adultery.
Moon in 11th house
This house is strongly influenced by Jupiter and Saturn. Every planet placed in this house will
destroy its inimical planets and the things associated with them. In this way the Moon here will
destroy its enemy Ketus things, i.e., the sons of the native. Here the Moon will have to face the
combined power of its enemies Saturn and Ketu, which will weaken the Moon. Now if Ketu is
placed in the 4th house, the life of the natives mother will be endangered. The business associated
with Mercury will also prove harmful. Starting house construction or purchase of a house on Saturdays will strengthen the Saturn (the Moons enemy) which will prove disastrous for the native.
Kanyadan after the midnight and participating in any marriage ceremony on Fridays will damage
the fortunes of the native.
Remedies
1. Offer milk in Bhairo Mandir and donate milk to others liberally.
2. Ensure that the grandmother does not see her grandson.
3. Heat up a piece of gold in fire and put it in a glass of milk before drinking it.
4. Throw 125 pieces of sweet (Peda) in a river.
Moon in 12th house
This house belongs to Moons friend Jupiter. Here the Moon will have good effects on Mars and the
things associated with Mars, but it will harm its enemies Mercury and Ketu and the things associated with them. Hence the business and things associated with the house in which Mars is placed
will provide highly beneficial effects. Similarly, the business and things associated with the houses
where Mercury and Ketu are placed will be strongly damaged. The Moon in the 12th houses causes
a general fear in the natives mind about numerous unforeseen troubles and dangers and thus destroys his sleep and peace of mind. Ketu in the 4th house will become weak and affect the natives
son and mother very adversely.
Remedies
1. Wearing Gold in ears, drinking milk after inserting hot piece of gold in it and visiting religious
places of worship will ward off the evils of the Moon in 12th house and also that of the Ketu in
the 4th house.
2. Never offer milk and food to religious saints/sadhus.
3. Do not open a school, college or any other educational institute and do not help children in
obtaining free of cost education.
