4. Mars : Effects And Remedies
Mars is a dry, red and fiery planet. Masculine by nature it signifies energy,
both constructive and destructive depending upon his position as Mars positive and Mars negative. If Sun and Mercury are placed together in one house,
Mars would be positive but if Saturn and Sun are placed in one house Mars
becomes negative.
Mars acts on the extremes - either soft like a wax or hard like a stone. The Sun, Moon and Jupiter
are his friends, whereas Mercury and Ketu are his enemies. Rahu and Saturn are neutral to Mars.
The first cycle of Mars runs between the ages 28 and 33, the 2nd between 63 and 68 years and the
3rd between 98 and 103 years. The 1st and 8th houses are the own houses of Mars and he gets
exalted in the 10th house of his debilitation. Mars acts as a malefic in the 4th and 8th houses, but he
is benefic if placed in the 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12th houses.
Mars is the significator of sex, brothers, land and property and rules over the animal instincts in
man. A benefic Mars offers self confidence, sharp wit, faculty of argumentation and adventurous
spirit, strong determination and qualities of leadership in all human pursuits. On the contrary, a
weak and afflicted Mars makes the native lose temper quickly, fool hardy, quarrelsome and brutal.
Such a Mars makes the native a sexual pervert.
The general effects and remedial measures of Mars according to Lal Kitab can be delineated as
follows :
Mars in Ist House
Mars in the 1st house makes the native good natured, truthful and richer from the 28th year of age.
He wins favours from the government and victory against the enemies without much effort. He
earns large profits from the business associated with Saturn i.e., iron, wood, machinery etc. and the
relatives represented by Saturn i.e., nephews, grandsons, uncles etc.
Spontaneous curses from the mouth of such a native will never go waste. Association of Saturn
with Mars provides physical trouble to the native.
Remedies
1. Avoid the acceptance of things free of cost or in charity.
2. Avoid evil deeds and telling lies.
3. Association with saints and Faqirs will prove very harmful.
4. Things of ivory will give very adverse effects. Avoid them.
Mars in 2nd House
The native with Mars in the 2nd house is generally the eldest issue of his parents, or else he or she
would always like to be treated so. But living and behaving like a younger brother would prove
highly beneficial and ward off several evils automatically. Mars in this house provides great wealth
and properties from the in-laws family. Mars negative here makes the native a snake in disguise for
others and causes his death in war or quarrels.
Mars with Mercury in the 2nd house weakens the will power and undermines the importance of the
native.
Remedies
1. The business associated with Moon, e.g., trade in cloth, will provide great prosperity, hence
strengthen Moon.
2. Ensure that your in-laws make arrangements for providing drinking water facilities to the common people.
3. Keep deer skin in the house.
Mars in 3rd House
The 3rd house is affected by Mars and Mercury, who provide brothers and sisters to the native i.e.,
he will not be the only issue of his parents. Others will be highly benefited from the native, but he
will not be able to receive benefit from others. Humbleness will bring rewards. In-laws will become
richer and richer after the natives marriage. The native believes in the principle  eat, drink and be
merry and suffers from blood disorders.
Remedies
1. Be soft hearted and avoid arrogance. Be good to brothers for prosperity.
2. Keep articles of ivory with you .
3. Put on silver ring in the left hand.
Mars in 4th House
The 4th house is overall the property of Moon. The fire and heat of Mars in this house burns the
cold water of Moon i.e., the properties of the Moon are adversely affected. The native loses peace
of mind and suffers from jealousy to others. He always misbehaves with his younger brothers. The
natives evil mission gets strong destructive powers. Such a native affects the life of his mother,
wife, mother-in-law etc very adversely. His anger becomes the cause of his overall destruction in
various aspects of life.
Remedies
1. Offer sweet milk to the roots of a banyan tree and put that wet soil on your navel.
2. To avoid havoc from fire, place empty bags of sugar on the roof of your house, shop or factory.
3. Always keep a square piece of silver with you.
4. Keep away from black, one-eyed or disabled person.
Mars in 5th House
The 5th house belongs to the Sun, who is a natural friend of Mars. Hence Mars ensures very good
results in this house. The sons of the native become instruments of wealth and fame for him. His
prosperity increases manifold after the birth of sons. The things and relatives represented by Venus
and Moon will prove beneficial in every manner. Someone of his forefathers must have been a
doctor or Vaidya.
The prosperity of the native will continue to grow more and more with the growth in age. But
romance and emotional affairs with the opposite sex will prove highly disastrous for the native,
which will destroy his mental peace and night sleep too.
Remedies
1. Maintain a good moral character.
2. Keep water in a pot below the head side of your bed at night and drop it in a flower pot in the
morning.
3. Offer Shradha to your ancestors and plant a Neem tree in the house.
Mars in 6th House
This house belongs to Mercury and Ketu. Both are mutual enemies and inimical to Mars also.
Hence Mars in this house will keep himself away from both. The native will be courageous, adventurous, lover of justice and powerful enough to set fire into water. He will be highly benefited by the
trade and business associated with Mercury. His pen will wield more power than the sword. If Sun,
Saturn and Mars are placed together in one house, the brothers, mother, sisters and wife will be
affected very adversely.
Remedies
1. Distribute salt in place of sweets on the birth of a male child.
2. His brothers should keep the native happy by offering him something or the other for their
protection and prosperity. But if he does not accept such things, the same should be thrown in
water.
3. The male children of the native should not wear gold.
4. Adopt remedies of Saturn for family comfort. Worship Ganeshji for parents health and destruction of enemies.
Mars in 7th House
This house belongs to the influences of Venus and Mercury, who combined together provide the
effect of Sun. If Mars is placed therein, the 7th house will be affected by Sun and Mars both, which
ensures that the natives ambition will be fulfilled. Wealth, property and family will increase.
But if Mercury is also placed here alongwith Mars, very adverse results will follow regarding the
things and relations represented by Mercury e.g., sister, sister-in-law, nurses, maid servant, parrot,
goats etc. Hence it would be better to keep away from them.
Remedies
1. Place solid piece of silver in the house for prosperity.
2. Always offer sweets to daughter, sister, sister-in-law and widows.
3. Repeatedly build a small wall and destroy it.
Mars in 8th House
The 8th house belongs to Mars and Saturn, who jointly influence the properties of this house. No
planet is considered good in this house. Mars here affects very adversely the younger brothers of the
native. The native sticks to commitments made by him without caring for profit or loss.
Remedies
1. Obtain blessings of widows and wear a silver chain.
2. Offer sweet loaves of bread prepared on Tandoor to dogs.
3. Take your meals in the kitchen.
4. Build a small dark room at the end of your house and do not allow sun light to enter it.
5. Offer rice, jaggery and gram pulse at religious places of worship.
6. Fill an earthern pot with Deshi Khand and bury it near a cremation ground.
Mars in 9th House
This house belongs to Jupiter, a friend of Mars. Mars placed in this house will prove good in every
manner to the native by virtue of the help and blessings of the elders. His brothers wife proves very
fortunate for him. Generally he will have as many brothers as his father had. Living with brothers in
a joint family will enhance all round happiness. The native will gain a highly prestigious administrative post upto the 28th year of his age. He may earn large profits in the trade of goods associated
with warfare.
Remedies
1. Obedience to elder brother.
2. Render services to your Bhabhi i.e., brothers wife.
3. Do not become an atheist and follow your traditional customs and rituals.
4. Offer rice, milk and jaggery at religious places of worship.
Mars in 10th House
This is the best position of Mars in a horoscope, the place of his exaltation. If the native is born in
a poor family, his family will become rich and affluent after his birth. If he is born in a rich family,
his family will grow richer and richer after his birth. If the native is the eldest brother he will gain a
more distinct recognition and reputation in society. He will be bold, courageous, healthy and competent enough to set traditions, norms and rules in society.
However, if malefic planets Rahu, Ketu and Saturn or Venus and Moon are placed in the 2nd house,
the aforesaid beneficial effects are reduced. Further if a friendly planet is placed in the 3rd house, it
will also affect the results of Mars in the 10th house adversely. If Saturn is placed in the 3rd house,
the native will gain huge wealth and large properties in the later part of his life along with a kingly
position. Mars in the 10th house but no planet in the 5th house provides all round prosperity and
happiness.
Remedies
1. Do not sell ancestral property and gold of the house.
2. Keep a pet deer in your house.
3. While boiling milk, please ensure that it should not overflow and fall on the fire.
4. Offer help to one-eyed and childless persons.
Mars in 11th House
Mars gives good results in this house, because this house is influenced by Jupiter and Saturn. If
Jupiter is in exalted position, Mars gives very good results. Native is courageous and just and
usually a trader.
Remedies
1. One should never sell ones ancestral property.
2. Keeping Sindoor or honey in an earthen pot will give good results.
Mars in 12th House
This house is inhabited by Jupiter, so now both Mars and Jupiter will give good results. This is also
considered as the Pukka Ghar of Rahu, so now Rahu will not trouble the native notwithstanding
its position in natives horoscope.
Remedies
1. Take honey the first thing in the morning.
2. Eating sweets and offering sweets to another person will increase the wealth of the native.
5. Mercury : Effects & Remedies
In astrological parlance Mercury has been understood as an externally variable, vacillating, convertible, neutral and dualistic planet. Mercury reflects
the mentality of an individual, governs the reaction to our senses and impressions and rules over the central nervous system. As an intellectual planet it
represents intelligence,
genius, analytic power and reproductibility.
Mercury is the smallest planet of the solar system. The author of Lal Kitab has compared Mercury
with a bat, which keeps hanging upside down and pounces upon the face of a child at the first
opportunity. The native fails to understand anything and meanwhile the mysterious and mischievous Mercury turns the cycle of fortune in the reverse gear. Mercury produces the effects of the
planet or planets it is associated with. Mercury is considered malefic in the 3rd, 8th, 9th and 12th
houses. Rahu gives bad results in 1, 5, 7, 8 and 11th houses. If Mercury and Rahu both are in their
auspicious houses then Mercury causes havoc in the natives houses and produces disastrous result
like putting the native behind the bars or creating troubles of the same sort. Mercury is considered
auspicious in the 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and the 7th houses and gives bad results when placed in the 3, 8, 9, 10,
11 and 12th. Its colour is green and Moon is its enemy. Sun Venus and Rahu are friends, whereas
Mars, Saturn, and Ketu are neutral to him. 7th house is the Pukka Ghar of Mercury. It stands
exalted in the 6th house and gets debilitated in the 12th house. Affected Venus causes diseases of
tooth and nervous system. If Mercury is placed alone in any house the native keeps running and
wasting time here and there.
Mercury in 1st House
Mercury in 1st house makes the native kind, humorous and diplomatic with administrative skill.
Such a native generally lives long and becomes selfish and mischievous by nature having special
attraction for non-vegetarian dishes and drinks. He receives favour from the government and his
daughters have royal and luxurious lives. The relatives represented by the house in which Sun is
placed gain wealth and riches within a little time and he himself will be having many sources of
income. If Sun is placed along with Mercury in the 1st house or if the Mercury is aspected by Sun
the wife of native will come from a rich and noble family and will be good natured. Such a native
will be affected by the evil effects of Mars but Sun will never give bad effects.
Rahu and Ketu will have evil effects, which suggests that the in laws and the offspring of the native
will be adverse. If Mercury is in the 1st house, the native will be adept in the art of influencing
others and he will live like a king. Malefic Mercury in the 1st house along with Moon in the 7th
house destroy the native because of intoxication.
Remedies
1. Keep away from the things of green colour and sisters in law.
2. Avoid consumption of meet, eggs and liquor.
3. Business that requires your sitting at one place would be more beneficial than the one that
requires running around.
Mercury in 2nd House
Mercury in the 2nd house makes the native intelligent selfcentered, destroyer of enemies and
cheats. He may be able to provide sufficient happiness to his father. He will be rich. The things
represented by Mars and Venus will prove beneficial to him.
Remedies
1. Abstain from eggs meat and liquor.
2. Association with your sisters in law is harmful.
3. Keeping sheep, goat and parrots as pets is strictly prohibited.
Mercury in 3rd House
Mercury in the 3rd house is not considered good. Mercury is inimical to Mars. But Mars does not
have enemity with Mercury. Therefore the native could receive benefits from his brother, but he
will not be beneficial to his brother or others. By virtue of its aspects of 9th and 11th houses Mercury affects the income and the condition of the father very adversely.
Remedies
1. Clean your teeth with alum everyday.
2. Feed birds and donate a goat.
3. Dont live in a south facing house.
4. Distribute medicines of asthma.
Mercury in 4th House
The native in the 4th house is considered fortunate, very dear to his mother, good trader and
receives favours from the government. However Mercury in this house effects the income and
health of another person adversely.
Remedies
1. Putting on silver chain for mental peace and golden chain for gaining wealth and property.
2. Putting Kesar Tilak regularly for 43 days on fore -head.
3. Serving monkeys by offering jaggery.
Mercury in 5th house
Mercury in this house makes the native happy, wealthy and wise. Spontaneous utterences from the
mouth of the native will certainly prove true.
It gives very good results if the Moon or any male planet is placed in 3rd, 5th, 9th and 11th houses,
but if Moon and Jupiter are not placed in good houses Mercury would provide malefic effects.
Remedies
1. Wear a copper coin in white thread for obtaining riches.
2. Serving cows for the happiness of wife and good luck.
3. A Gomukhi house (narrow at the front and wider at the end) would prove highly auspicius
where as Shermukhi house (wider at the front and narrower at the end) would prove highly
disastrous.
Mercury in 6th House
Mercury becomes exalted in the 6th house. The native will be selfmade man and will receive benefits from agricultural land, stationery, printing press and trade. Good or evil words from his mouth
will never go waste. North facing house will give bad results. Daughters marriage in the north
direction will make her unhappy in every way.
Remedies
1. Burying a bottle filled with Ganga water into the agricultural land.
2. Putting on a silver ring in the left hand of ones wife.
3. Starting any important work in the presence of a girl or daughters, or with flowers in hand
proves auspicious.
Mercury in 7th House
In a male horoscope, Mercury in the 7th house proves highly beneficial for others for whom the
native wishes well. In a female horoscope it produces good result. The pen of the native wields
more power then the sword. The sister of the natives wife will prove highly helpful in every matter.
If a Moon is placed in the 1st house, overseas journey will be advantageous. Saturn in the 3rd house
will make the wifes family very rich.
Remedies
1. Avoid any business in partnership.
2. Avoid speculation.
3. Do not keep relationship with sister in law of spoilt character.
Mercury in 8th House
Mercury gives very bad results in 8th house, but if it is placed along with a male planet it will give
good effects of the associated planet. The native lives a hard life, victimised by diseases and during
the age 32-34 his income goes down by half. It is more harmful if some planet is placed in the 2nd
house. If Rahu is also placed in the same house the native may have to go to jail, may have to be
hospitalized or may have to wander from place to place. Bad results accrue if Mars is also placed
therein. Mercury here causes disfavour from the government and diseases like blood disorder, eye
problem, tooth and vein troubles, as well as big loss in business.
Remedies
1. Get an earthen pot filled with honey and bury it in the cremation ground or deserted area.
2. Place milk or rain water in a container on the roof of the house.
3. Put a ring in the nose of your daughter.
Mercury in 9th House
Mercury provides very bad results in the 9th house also,because this house belongs to Jupiter and
Mercury remains inimical to it. It causes continuous mental restlessness and defamation of various
types. If Moon, Ketu and Jupiter are placed in 1, 3, 6, 7, 9 and 11th houses, Mercury does not give
very advantageous results.
Remedies
1. Avoid the use of green colour.
2. Get yours nose pricked.
3. Offer mushroom filled in an earthen pot to a religious place.
4. Do not accept any Tabeez from any Sadhu or Faqir.
Mercury in 10th House
Mercury in the 10th house provides favour from the government. Gives good sources of livelihood.He
manages to get his work done in every way. The business of such a native flourishes in a Shermukhi
house, but residency in such a house gives very bad result and can be disastrous.
Remedies
1. Consumption of eggs, meat and liquor are strictly prohibited.
2. Offer rice and milk in religious places.
Mercury in 11th House
Mercury in this house gives bad results, because of enemity to Jupiter. At the age of 34 the native
undertakes works of extreme foolishness. Here Mercury causes loss of wealth, loss of mental peace
and loss of reputation. Even hard work is not awarded. However the children of native will be well
educated and get married in very rich and noble families.
Remedies
1. Wear copper coin in neck in a white thread or silver chain.
2. Do not keep a widowed sister or fathers sister in your house.
3. Avoid green colour and emerald.
4. Do not accept any Tabeez from a Sadhu or Faqir.
Mercury in 12th House
Mercury here destroys nights sleep of the native and causes troubles of many sorts. He loses peace
of mind and very often suffers from headache. He has a long life but suffers from Mercury, although, however, if Mercury is accompanied by Saturn in this house very good results follow.
Saturn along with Sun and Mercury in 12th house also gives good result. Daughters, sisters, fathers
sister and niece will be unhappy as long as they are living in the natives house. Such persons are
generally self praising and of irritable nature. If something right or wrong goes into his mind, he
will ensure to stick to it in every manner. If such a native is fond of taking liquor he will be of
pretentious nature. Speculation in business will prove harmful. Marriage in the 25th year will prove
harmful for the natives wife and father.
Remedies
1. Throwing new empty pitcher in a river.
2. Putting on a ring of stainless steel.
3. Putting Kesar Tilak on face, head and visiting religious places of worship.
4. Taking advice of another person before starting any new or important work.
6. Jupiter : Effects and Remedies
Jupiter is a fiery, noble, benevolent, masculine, expansive, optimistic, positive and
dignified planet. Higher attributes of the mind and soul, generosity, joy, jubilation
and joviality along with high reasoning ability and the power of right judgement
are all governed by Jupiter. Jupiter rules educational interests, law, religion, philosophy, banking, economics and indicates the extent of ones love and longing
for religion, scriptures, elders and preceptors. He is also a signification of wealth,
progress, philosophic nature, good conduct, health and children.
Jupiter represents Thursday and the yellow colour. He is regarded as Karaka for 2nd, 5th and
9th houses. The Sun, Mars and Moon are his friends, where as Mercury and Venus are enemies to
him. Rahu, Ketu and Saturn adopt neutrality to him. He stands exalted in the 4th house and the
10th house is the house of his debilitation.
Jupiter provides good results if placed in houses 1, 5, 8, 9 and 12, but 6th, 7th and the 10th are the
bad houses for him. Jupiter gives bad results when Venus or Mercury get placed in the 10th house
of a horoscope. However, jupiter never gives bad results if placed alone in any house. A malefic
Jupiter affects the Ketu (son) very adversely. Jupiter offers malefic results if he is placed with
Saturn, Rahu or Ketu in a horoscope.
Jupiter in 1st House
Jupiter in the Ist house makes the native necessarily rich, even if he is deprived of learning and
education. He will be healthy and never afraid of enemies. He will rise every 8th year of his life
through his own efforts and with the help of friends in the government. If the 7th house is not
occupied by any planet success and prosperity will come after the marriage of the native. Marriage or construction of a house with ones own earnings in the 24th or 27th year would prove
inauspicious for the longevity of the fathers life. Jupiter in Ist house along with the Saturn in the
9th house causes health problems for the native. Jupiter in the Ist house and Rahu in the 8th
causes the death of the natives father because of heart attack or asthma.
Remedies
1. Offer the things of Mercury, Venus and Saturn to the religious places.
2. Serving cows and helping untouchables.
3. If Saturun is placed in the 5th house, dont build a house.
4. If Saturn is placed in the 9th house, dont buy machinery associated with Saturn.
5. If Saturn is in 11th or 12th house, avoid use wine, meat and eggs strictly.
6. Ward-off the evil effects of Mercury by putting on silver in the nose.
Jupiter in 2nd House
The results of this house are affected by Jupiter and Venus as if they are together in this house,
though Venus may be placed anywhere in the chart. Venus and Jupiter are inimical to each other.
Hence both will affect each other adversely. Consequently, if the native engages himself in the trade
of gold or jewellery, then the things of Venus like wife, wealth and property will get destroyed.
As long as the wife of the native is with him, the native will continue gaining honour and wealth
despite the fact that his wife and her family may be suffering because of ill health and other prob-
lems. The native is admired by females and inherits the property of his father. He may be benefited
by lottery or property of a person having no issues, if the 2nd, 6th and 8th houses are auspicious and
Saturn is not placed in the 10th.
Remedies
1. Charity and donations will ensure prosperity.
2. Offer milk to snakes for warding off the evils of Saturn placed in the 10th.
3. Fill up the pits if any on the road side, in front of your house.
Jupiter in 3rd House
The jupiter in the 3rd house makes the native learned and rich, who receives continuous income
from the government all through his life. Saturn in the 9th makes the native live long, whereas if
Saturn is placed in the 2nd the native becomes extremely clever and crafty. However Saturn is the
4th indicates that the native will be robbed of money and wealth by his friends. If Jupiter is accompanied by inimical planets in the 3rd the native is destroyed and becomes a liability on his closer
ones.
Remedies
1. Worship of Goddess Durga and offering sweets and fruits to small girls and obtaining their
blessing by touching their feet. Avoid sycophants.
Jupiter in 4th House
The 4th house belongs to Moon, a friend of Jupiter, who stands exalted in this house. Hence Jupiter
here gives very good results and provides the native the powers of deciding the fate and fortune of
others. He will possess money, wealth and large properties along with honour and favours from the
government. In times of crisis the native will receive divine help. As he grows old his prosperity
and money will increase. How so ever if he has built a temple at home Jupiter will not give the
above mentioned results and the native will have to face poverty and disturbed married life.
Remedies
1. The native should not keep a temple in his house.
2. He should serve his elders.
3. He should offer milk to snake.
4. He should never bare his body before anyone.
Jupiter in 5th House
This house belongs to Jupiter and Sun. Natives prosperity will increase after the birth of his son. In
fact, more sons a native has, the more prosperous he will become. 5th house is the own house of
Surya and in this house Surya, Ketu and Brihaspati will give mixed results. However if Mercury,
Venus and Rahu is in 2nd, 9th, 11th or 12th houses then Jupiter Sun and Ketu will give bad results.
If the native is honest and laborious then Jupiter will give good results.
Remedies
1. Do not accept any donations or gifts.
2. Offers your services to priests and sadhus.
Jupiter in 6th House
6th house belongs to Mercury and Ketu also has its effect on this house. So this house will give
combined effects of Mercury, Jupiter and Ketu. If Jupiter is benefic the native will be of pious
nature. He will get everything in life without asking. Donations and offerings in the name of elders
will prove beneficial. If Jupiter is in 6th and Ketu is benefic then native will become selfish. However, if Ketu is malefic in 6th house and Mercury is also malefic the native will be unlucky upto 34
years of age. Here Jupiter causes asthma to the natives father
Remedies
1. Offer things connected with Jupiter in a temple.
2. Feed the cocks.
3. Offer clothes to the priest.
Jupiter in 7th House
7th house belongs to Venus, so it will give mixed results. The native will have rise in luck after
marriage and native will be involved in religious works. The good result of the house will depend
upon position of Moon. The native will never be a debtor and will have good children. And if the
sun is also in 1st house the native will be a good astrologer and lover of comforts.
However if Jupiter is malefic in 7th house and Saturn is in the 9th the native will become a thief. If
Mercury is in the 9th then his married life will be full of probelms. If Jupiter is malefic native will
never get support from brothers and will be deprived of favours from the government. Jupiter in 7th
house causes differences with the father. If so one should never donate clothes to anyone, otherwise one will certainly get reduced to extreme poverty.
Remedies
1. Offer worship to lord Shiva.
2. One should not keep idols of God in ones house.
3. Keep gold tied in a yellow cloth always with you.
4. One should stay away from yellow clad Sadhus and Faqirs.
Jupiter in 8th House
Jupiter does not give good results in this house, but one will get all the worldly comforts. In the time
of distress, one will get help from God. Being religious will increase natives luck. As long as the
native is wearing gold he will not be unhappy or ill. If there is Mercury, Venus or Rahu in 2nd, 5th,
9th, 11th and 12th house, natives father will be ill and native himself will face loss of prestige.
 Remedies
1. Offer things connected with Rahu, like wheat, barley, coconut into running water.
2. Plant a Pipal tree in a cremation ground.
3. Offer Ghee and potatoes and camphor in temple.
Jupiter in 9th House
9th house is especially influenced by Jupiter. So the native will be famous, rich and will be born in
a rich family. The native will be true to his words and will have long life and have good children. In
case Jupiter is malefic the native will have none of these qualities and will be atheistic. If the native
has any planet inimical to Jupiter in the 1st, 5th and 4th house then Jupiter will give bad results.
Remedies
1. One should go to temple everyday
2. Abstain from drinking alcohol.
3. Offer rice to running water.
Jupiter in 10th House
This house belongs to Saturn. So the native will have to imbibe the qualities of Saturn only then he
will be happy. The native should be cunning and sly. Only then the can enjoy the good results of
Jupiter. If Sun is in the 4th house Jupiter will give very good results. Venus and Mars in the 4th
house ensure multi-marriages for the native. If friendly planets are placed in the 2nd, 4th and 6th
houses, Jupiter provides highly beneficial results in matters of money and wealth. A malefic Jupiter
in the 10th makes the native sad and impoverished. He is deprived of ancestral properties, wife and
children.
Remedies
1. Clean your nose before beginning any work.
2. Throw copper coins in the running water of a river for 43 days.
3. Offer almonds to religious places.
4. A temple with idols must not be established within the house.
5. Put Tilak of saffron on the forehead.
Jupiter in 11th House
Jupiter in this house affects the things and relatives of his enemies Mercury, Venus and Rahu very
adversely. Consequently, the wife of the native will remain miserable. Similarly, sisters, daughters
and fathers sisters will also remain unhappy. The native will be a debtor even if Mercury is well
placed. The native will be comfortable only as long as his father lives with him in a joint family
along with brothers, sisters and mother.
Remedies
1. Always keep gold on your body.
2. Put on a copper bangle.
3. Watering a Pipal tree would prove beneficial.
Jupiter in 12th House
The 12th house would provide the combined influences of Jupiter and Rahu, who are inimical to
each other. If the native observes good conduct, wishes good for all and observes religious practices
he will become happy and enjoy a comfortable sleep at night. He would become wealthy and powerful. Abstaining from evil acts of Saturn will make the business of machinery, motor, trucks and
cars highly beneficial to him.
Remedies
1. Avoid furnishing false evidence in any matter.
2. Render services to sadhus, Pipal Gurus and Pipal tree.
3. Place water and Saunf on the head side of your bed during nights.
7. Venus : Effects And Remedies
As a feminine planet, Venus has been regarded as the goddess of love, marriage,
beauty and all worldly comforts. Venus represents that power of love which leads
to the merger of two individual selves into one and rules the gentle and refined
attributes of human life.
As a preceptor of demons, Venus stands for the husband in the horoscope of a female and represents
the wife in the horoscope of a male. Venus offers good results if placed alone in the birth chart. The
2nd and 7th houses are owned by Venus who gets exalted in the 12th house. Saturn, Mercury and
Ketu are friends of Venus, whereas Sun, Moon and Rahu act as enemies. Venus offers very good
results if posited in the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th and 12th houses, but the Ist, 6th and 9th houses are
considered bad for Venus. Accordingly, Venus offers very good results in the houses of Mercury,
Saturn and Ketu, whereas evil effects will follow if posited in the houses of Sun, Rahu and Moon.
When Rahu aspects Venus or vice versa, or when both are placed together in a house, the good
results of Venus will be nullified and the native will get deprived of money, wealth and family
comforts altogether. The eyes of the natives, mother will become severely defective if Moon and
Venus are placed just opposite to each other.
Afflicted Venus causes trouble in the eyes, diseases of the ovaries, gout, anaemia and other complications due to over indulgence in amusements and sex, including gonorrhoea and syphilis. An
afflicted Venus may cause vehicular accidents, faithlessness in love and marriage and will deprive
the native of the comforts of vehicles, conveyance etc.
Venus in Ist House
Venus in Ist house makes the native highly handsome, long lived, sweet tongued and popular
among the opposite sex. Wife of the native remains ill. Religion, caste or creed is never a bar for
having sexual relations with anyone. Such a native is generally highly romantic by nature and longs
for love and sex with other women. He gets married before he starts earning his living. Such a
native becomes a leader of persons of his age group, but leadership of the family members causes
several family troubles. Such a native earns great profits through the trade of clothes. Such a native
is generally deprived of interest in religious pursuits. When Venus comes in 7th house in Varsha
Phal, it causes chronic fever and blood cough.
Remedies
1. Do not marry at the age of 25 years.
2. Always act accordig to the advice of others.
3. Serving a black cow.
4. Avoid sex during day time.
5. Take bath with curd.
6. Intake of cows urine is very useful.
Venus in 2nd House
Doing bad or evil towards others would prove harmful to the native. Money, wealth and property
would continue to grow upto sixty years. Shermukhi house (wider at the front than the rear portion)
would prove disastrous for the native. Business or trade associated with gold and jewellery will be
extremely harmful. Business associated with earthen goods, agriculture and animal will prove highly
beneficial. Venus in 2nd second house in a female horoscope renders the native barren or infertile
and in a male s horoscope makes the wife incapable of producing a son.
Remedies
1. For getting a son, intake of things associated with Mars, like honey, Saunf or Deshi Khand will
be highly effective.
2. Feed two kgs of potatoes coloured by yellow turmeric to cows.
3. Offer two kgs. cows Ghee in a temple.
4. Avoid adultery.
Venus in 3rd House
Here Venus blesses the native with a charming personality and every woman would get attracted to
him. He is generally loved by all.
If the native gets involved with other women he will have to live in subservience to his wife,
otherwise his wife will always be dominated by him, though she may be dominating everyone else
coming into contact with her. She would be courageous, supportive and helpful to the native like
second bullock of the cart. He will be saved from deceit, theft and harm from others. Contacts with
other women would prove harmful and affect the longevity adversely. If planets placed in 9th and
11th houses are inimical to Venus, highly adverse results will follow. He will have many daughters.
Remedies
1. Respect your wife and never insult her.
2. Avoid flirting with other women.
Venus in 4th House
Venus in 4th house strongly establishes the possibility of two wives and makes the native rich, too,
If Jupiter is posited in 10th house and Venus is placed in 4th, the native will face adverse results
from all sides if he tries to be religious. Venus in 4th house destroys the possibility of a son to the
native if he covers a well by a roof and constructs a room or house over it. The business associated
with Mercury will also prove harmful. Saturn will give disastrous effects if the native consumes
liqour. The business or trade associated with Mars will prove advantageous to such a native. Venus
in 4th and Jupiter in Ist house will create frequent quarrels with the mother-in-law.
Remedies
1. Change the name of your wife and remarry her formally.
2. Throwing rice, silver and milk in the running water or feeding Kheer or milk to mother like
women will ward off the quarrels between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law.
3. Keep the roof of the house clean and well-maintained for the health of your wife.
4. Drop things of Jupiter, like gram, pulses and Kesar, in the river.
Venus in 5th House
5th house is the Pukka Ghar of the Sun, where Venus will get burnt with the heat of the Sun.
Consequently the native is a flirt and amorous by nature. He will face big misfortunes in life.
However, if the native maintains a good character he will steer through the hardships of life and
obtain great riches and promotions in service after five years of his marriage. Such a native is
generally learned and destroyer of enemies.
Remedies
1. One should not marry against the wishes of his parents.
2. Serving cows and mother like women.
3. Avoid relationship will other women.
4. Natives wife should wash her private parts with curd or milk.
Venus in 6th House
This house belongs to Mercury and Ketu, who are inimical to each other, but Venus is friendly to
both. Venus stands, debilitated in this house. However, if the native keeps the opposite sex happy
and provides her with all the comforts, his money and wealth will continue to grow. The wife of the
native should not get dressed like a male and should not get her hair cut like a male, otherwise
poverty will crop up. Such a native must marry a person who has got a brother or brothers. Further,
the native should not leave any work in the midway, i.e., before completion.
Remedies
1. Ensure that your wife puts gold clips in her hair.
2. Your spouse must not remain barefooted.
3. The private parts should be washed with red medicine.
Venus in 7th House
This house belongs to Venus, so Venus gives very good results if it is placed in this house. The
planet of Ist house offers the effects of 7th house in such a manner as if it is placed in 7th house
itself. If a planet inimical to Venus is placed in Ist house e.g. Rahu, the wife and the household
affairs of the native will be adversely affected. The native spends his money largely on women. The
native should take up the trade or business which is associated wil marriage ceremony, like tent
house and beauty parlour. Association with one eyed and black woman will prove useful.
Remedies
1. Domestication of white cows prohibited.
2. Serving red cows.
3. Donate Jawar equal to the weight of your spouse to a temple.
4. Throwing blue flowers in a dirty canal for 43 days.
Venus in 8th House
No planet is considered benefic in this house Even Venus in this house becomes rotten and poisonous. The wife of such a native becomes highly irritable and short tempered. Evil utterances from
her mouth will certainly prove to be true. The native will be suffering from the feeling of self pity.
Taking guarantee or surety for someone will prove disastrous. If there is no planet in 2nd house, do
not marry before 25 years of age, otherwise the wife will certainly die.
Remedies
1. The native should not accept Daan.
2. Bowing head in the place of worship and temples.
3. Copper coin or blue flower to be thrown in gutter or dirty Nullah continuously for ten days.
4. Wash your private parts with curd.
Venus in 9th House
Venus in this house does not offer good results. The native may have riches, but he will get his
bread only after hard labour. His efforts are not properly rewarded. There will be dearth of male
members, money, wealth and property. If Venus is accompanied by Mercury or any malefic planet
the native will be a victim of intoxication and disease from seventeen years of age.
Remedies
1. In the foundation of the house silver and honey should be buried.
2. Silver bangles to be worn after putting some red colour on them.
3. Bury a silver piece under a Neem tree for 43 days.
Venus in 10th House
Venus in this house makes native greedy, suspicious and interested in handicraft. The native would
act under the control and guidance of his spouse. As long as the spouse is with the native all sorts of
troubles will remain warded off. If in a motor car no accident will take place or even if it takes place
the native cannot be harmed in any manner. The business and things associated with Saturn will
prove advantageous.
Remedies
1. Washing private parts with curd.
2. Western wall of the house should be of mud.
3. Abstinence from wine and non vegetarian food.
4. At the time of illness, the native should donate a black cow.
Venus in 11th House
Venus in this house is influenced by Saturn and Jupiter, because this house belongs to Jupiter and
Saturn. This house is aspected by 3rd house which is influened by Mars and Mercury. Natives
wife, through her brothers, will prove very beneficial.
Remedies
1. Remedies of Mercury will be useful.
2. Oil to be given on Saturday.
3. The native usually suffers from low sperm count in his semen. Native should drink milk in
which hot piece of gold has been dipped.
Venus in 12th House
Exalted Venus gives very beneficial results in this house. The native will have a wife, who will act
as a shield in the time of trouble. Taking help from women will prove highly advantageous for the
native, who receives all favours from the government.
Venus being inimical to Jupiter causes health problems to the wife. Mercury in 2nd or 6th houses
makes the native diseased, but bestows literary and poetic talent to the native. Such a native gains
high spiritual powers at the age of 59 and generally lives up to about 96 years.
Remedies
1. Blue flowers to be buried by the wife at the time of sunset, for good health.
2. The wife will act as a defence wall for the husband, if she gives things in charity to people.
3. Domesticating and giving cows in charity.
4. Offer love, respect and honour to your wife.
